1. Introduction
In recent years, music plagiarism has become a 
serious issue in the music industry. With growing use
of the World Wide Web, the revenue loss due to
plagiarism and pirate copies has been escalating
exponentially. In Korea, it is estimated to be more than 
2 billion dollar (2009) [1]. The proposed music 
plagiarism detection system should be a welcome news 
to the music industry. Music often characterized by its melody, harmony, 
rhythm and timbre. Amongst these characteristics of 
music, melody is considered to be the most creative 
specific and expressive element that characterizes
music. With respect to melody, Korea Entertainment 
law society conducted a survey to find out what people 
considered music plagiarism to be. From the survey, 
music plagiarism is suspected under the following 
cases [2]:
1. When two music have similar successive
melody notes, plagiarism can be suspected. 2. When two music share the unique parts of
melody which is rarely uses in others, plagiarism can be suspected. 3. When music has similar melody progress with 
different key and instruments, plagiarism can be 
suspected.
With this in mind, the music plagiarism detection 
system is developed in this paper. Music plagiarism 
detection systems had been studied in the past but only 
with MIDI as input. [3]. This system receives PCM 
data as a query and extracts melody from it. Then, it 
calculates the melody similarity to the music in the 
database and retrieves the plagiarized music.
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 shows 
whole system to detect music plagiarism. Section 3 
describes melody extraction algorithm from 
polyphonic music via harmonic model. Section 4 
represents symbolic melody similarity calculation 
based on string matching algorithm. Section 5 
describes music plagiarism detecting system and 
experiments. Finally, section 6 concludes this paper.
2. System Overview
The system is composed of four modules as
illustrated in Fig. 1: (1)Melody Extraction Module, 
(2)Melody-to-MIDI Module, (3)Similarity Calculation 
Modules and (4)Common Subsequence Search 
Modules. The system receives as input a polyphonic 
music (PCM data) and outputs information of
plagiarized music (music title, time, etc.). In the Melody Extraction Modules, melody of the 
query music is extracted. In the Melody-to-MIDI 
Conversion Modules, the melody pitch sequence is 
converted into a note sequence which is appropriate for 
MIDI format. In Similarity Calculation Modules, the 
similarity between the note sequence of the input 
polyphonic music and those of music in the database is 
calculated. In the Common Subsequence Search 
Modules, the similar section of the music in the 
database is detected. Thus, the overall system can 
detect a plagiarized music and its similar section.
Introduction 
Recently, the use of various types of multimedia data such as images, videos, and 
audios has shown its explosive growth, so the content-based search became of great 
importance[12][7][13][5][4][3]. For the successful content-based search, an indexing 
scheme and a query processing scheme are the key issues to be considered. Despite of 
its great advance, audio search has been less investigated than either image or video 
searches [8]. 
In this paper, we address the development of a system that detects plagiarism 
based on the similar melody searching, which is an operation that finds the melodies 
similar to a given query melody from a music database. Specifically, the plagiarism 
detection system is to examine if there exist such melodies in music databases as 
being similar to any melodies of a composerís interest. Without realizing it, any composers may be involved in diverse plagiarism disputes. The main purpose of this 
research is to help composers to avoid unnecessary plagiarism disputes by using the 
plagiarism detection system in advance. 
Unlike such previous systems as [6][8][9][10], our plagiarism detection system has 
its unique characteristics as follows: 
• A novel similarity model: it solves the problem of misjudgment by supporting 
alignment as well as shifting in the similarity model. 
• Multidimensional indexing: it makes a basic framework for fast searching by employing a multidimensional index built on melody features. 
Music Plagiarism Detection Using Melody Databases 685 
• A three-step query processing: it provides fast search ability by taking a three-step 
query processing method, which consists of index searching, window stitching, 
and post-processing. 
The results of performance evaluation show that our approach outperforms the sequential-scan-based one in the speed of searching up to around 31 times. 
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes a novel similarity model for 
computing the similarity between two different melodies. Section 3 discusses an indexing method for efficient similar melody searching from melody databases. Section 
4 presents a three-step query processing method which employs the proposed indexing method. To show its superiority, we evaluate the performance of our system in 
Section 5. Finally, Section 6 summarizes and concludes the paper. 
2 Similarity Model 
This section describes a similarity model to compute the similarity between two different melodies. 
2.1 Basic Model 
A melody of a music is defined as a list of snatches, i.e. as a sequence S = <(si, sLi)> 
(0<=i<n), called a melody sequence. Here, si denotes the ith tone of a melody, and sLi
denotes the length of the ith tone of a melody. Also, the number of tones, n, is called 
the length of a melody sequence. For example, the following melody with a C major 
key in four-quarters time is described as a melody sequence of length 4, i.e. <(sol, 1), 
(la, 1/2), (la, 1/2), (fa, 2)>1. 
For comparison of any two melody sequences S = <(si, sLi)>(0<=i<n) and Q = 
<(qj, qLj)>(0<=j<m), we make the following assumptions: 
• Assumption 1: S and Q should have the same meter. In other words, two melody 
sequences of different meters are excluded for similarity searching. 
• Assumption 2: It always holds that n=m and sLi = qLj if i=j, for all (i, j)'s. Thus, 
two melody sequences to be compared should be of the same length, and the 
lengths of their corresponding tones should be also the same. 
For any two melody sequences S and Q satisfying these assumptions, the similarity 
between S and Q is computed based on Definition 1 described below. 

This paper addresses the development of a system that detects plagiarism based on similar melody searching. Similar melody searching is to find 
the melodies similar to a given query melody from a music database. For this 
purpose, we propose a novel similarity model that supports alignment as well as 
shifting. Also, we suggest a method for indexing the features extracted from 
every melody, and a method for processing plagiarism detection by using the 
index. With our plagiarism detection system, composers can easily search for 
the melodies similar to their ones from music databases. Through performance 
evaluation via a series of experiments, we show the effectiveness of our approach. The results reveal that our approach outperforms the sequential-scanbased one in speed up to around 31 times. 
Music is an art whose production is very difficult. Artists work for years just to produce one song. 
Every song produced by an artist is unique. Music plagiarism is an insult to these peoples work because the 
plagiarizer doesnt know the blood sweat and toil that goes into one song. Music plagiarism is not a new 
phenomena. It has been going for many years. However only recently with access to the internet and there by a 
huge range of song we have come to realise just how many songs are fake. The problem with this detecting 
plagiarism is that people are biased. So they cant be wholly relied on. Another thing is that when proving 
plagiarism especially in a court of law perception of people (experts)can vary. What is needed is a way to 
quantitatively and scientifically prove plagiarism in music. This will lead to a more reliable accurate and 
effective means of detection. our project set out to be a beacon of truth to expose plagiarizers and give back 
dignity to the art that is music.
By using mfcc, entropy and mean energy level we have created a robust fingerprinting algorithm 
,which enables us to differentiate copies from original music.these three features have been chosen because of 
two major considerations.The first being that an algorithm that is extremely efficient meaning that it pin points 
plagiarism easily and without error. The second consideration is the processing time that is the time required for 
our algorithm to obtain a result.through out the project. We struggle to balance these two factors and finally we 
decided to take these three factors. par Our comparison through taking the Euclidian distance of vector 
quantisation of features mentioned above allows us to do so. Inspite the rise of plagiarism in reason years we 
believe this algorithm could be usefull in playing a vital role in stamping out plagiarism. More features can be 
added and the code can be better optimised so in the future music plagiarism becomes a thing of the past.

Abstract: Music plagiarism detector is an alternative approach for music genre classification which converts 
the audio signal into spectrograms and then extracts features from this visual representation. The idea is that 
treating the time-frequency representation as a texture image we can extract features to build reliable music 
genre classification systems. The proposed approach also takes into account a zoning mechanism to perform 
local feature extraction, which has been proved to be quite efficient. The feature include MFCC, energy, entropy 
etc. In this we suggest a method for indexing the features extracted from every melody and a method for 
processing plagiarism detection by using the index. With our plagiarism detection system, composers can easily 
search for the melodies similar to their ones from music databases. Furthermore, for applications such as radio 
monitoring, search times on the order of a few milliseconds per query are attained, even on a massive music 
database.
Abstract: Music plagiarism detector is an alternative approach for music genre classification which converts 
the audio signal into spectrograms and then extracts features from this visual representation. The idea is that 
treating the time-frequency representation as a texture image we can extract features to build reliable music 
genre classification systems. The proposed approach also takes into account a zoning mechanism to perform 
local feature extraction, which has been proved to be quite efficient. The feature include MFCC, energy, entropy 
etc. In this we suggest a method for indexing the features extracted from every melody and a method for 
processing plagiarism detection by using the index. With our plagiarism detection system, composers can easily 
search for the melodies similar to their ones from music databases. Furthermore, for applications such as radio 
monitoring, search times on the order of a few milliseconds per query are attained, even on a massive music 
database
